good to have all of you here today to be part of this.
This is just another opportunity that I get to be able to share the Word of God with you.
And now this is something that I think is very seriously.
This is not something that's very lightly at all.
This is something that I believe that God has called me to do.
And this is when I want to be at my best.
So I just pray that today will be something that will touch and help your heart.
along the line as we think about thankfulness.
And this time of year, this is where my brain goes.
My first thought of everything during this time of year is to how can I form a message about thankfulness?
And we've done that next week.
I'm going to probably preach unless the Lord changes my mind.
I preached a message here before that had us out of Dr. Luke that deals with these 10 lepers.
Anybody know the story?
on the 10 lepers.
Well, that's where I feel kind of led to go back to again next week, Sunday before Thanksgiving.
So hang on to that, I believe that's where we might go unless God gives us something else.
But there's plenty of scripture in the Word of God to go to that shows us how.
We should be thankful to him, isn't there?
I mean, it doesn't take long.
You could just flip a page here or there.
You don't even have to flip the page.
You can just look at the other side of the page.
And there's something there that we can be thankful for.
But today I have settled in over in the book of Ephesians, over in the New Testament.
It's one of Paul's epistles, Galatians, Ephesians, Colossians and Philippians.
This is the second of his four epistles in their Ephesians.
And we're going to be in chapter three.
this morning as we study here verses 14 to 21 in just a moment.
But as you're turning out, I just want you to know this past Wednesday, Wednesday.
is my day that I take to do my sermon preparation.
And I was also this past Wednesday working on a lesson for our men's ministry class that we also have on Wednesday night, shameless little plug for men's ministry.
If you hadn't been coming, you should come.
But it's a wonderful time.
So we were in Ephesians looking at that as well.
And so as I was studying for that,
This passage that we're going to look at this morning together kind of stuck out to me as we were just trying to take a look and I said, well, Lord, that must be where You want me to go for.
a message on Sunday.
So that's why we're here today.
So we were in chapter four for our ministry, and then we decided, or I decided to go into chapter three here, verses 14 to 21.
Now this is a prayer from Paul.
You're going to read this, and even in my Bible, it says Paul's prayer to the Ephesians.
But I believe that in this prayer, when we start taking a look at what this says, we are going to see several things that we should be oh, so very thankful for.
So that's where we're going to be.
So if you have found your place, stand with me and got it.
Got it.
Amen.
And let's read the word of God together.
Again, it is Ephesians chapter three versus 14 through 21.
And here's what it says.
It says, for this reason, remember now, this is a prayer for this reason I kneel before the father from whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name.
I pray that out of his glorious riches, he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith.
And I pray that you being rooted and established in love may have power together with all the Lord's holy people to grasp how wide and long and how high and deep
is the love of Christ and to know this love that surpasses knowledge that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God.
Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations forever and ever, amen.
Let's pray, Lord, thank you for this passage
that we have there's such meaning, such depth, such breadth to what it is that you have for us to say and to hear this morning.
So I just asked that you use me as a vessel today to be able to deliver this in the way that you would want me to Father content and delivering.
We just hand this to you.
Just pray that you hide me behind the cross so that everything that is said will be Father something that comes from you.
So Lord bless us as we study together and we give you praise for this time and Jesus we pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
Now if we were to poll our attendance today and we sort of did this a little earlier with our testimony time, if I were to ask you everything that you are thankful for, if you could make a list, if you had a piece of paper to make a list, more than likely I'd have to give you something larger than that little piece of prayer.
paper that we use, wouldn't you think?
Because we have so much to be thankful for.
And if you're like me, just the blessings just keep rolling.
And you know, a lot of times we think, man, Lord, what's going on?
I ain't so much going on in my life.
But if we were to stop for just one second and flip that and say, Lord, my goodness, how much do I have to be thankful for?
Isn't that right, Evelyn?
I mean, that's just how it works.
We are so thankful for what we should be, for what God has done for us.
Not a little bit, y'all.
Anybody have any thanksgiving traditions?
Yeah, some of us do.
I see heads bobbin.
And we used to do this at our house as a kid coming up.
We would go before we could eat anything.
Mama made us go around the table and say, you got to tell us at least one thing you thankful for.
Anybody else do that?
Well, times have changed.
My mom was going blessed.
Our daddy's gone.
But we haven't done that.
Maybe we ought to get back into doing that.
tradition.
It's not really a tradition, I wouldn't suppose.
I think it's just a time of thankfulness that we should have together.
But when you've got 30 people at your house, you get kind of hungry when that's going on.
So, but we should probably do that.
But
That's right.
You got to sneak a little something before you start.
But anyway, we hadn't done it in a while.
Maybe we should get back on track and do it.
But in this passage today, I believe, and honestly, looking again, this is a prayer from Paul, and you might think, well, how can we relate this to something to be thankful for?
Well, I believe there's several things in here that as we read what Paul has to say here that as a Christian in today's world, we should be thankful for.
First of all, I believe this at chapter 14 verse 16 tells us
that we should really be thankful for the power of the Holy Spirit.
You ever thought about the power of the Holy Spirit?
I know that you have, but if you're really dug into your heart on that, if you thought about what the power of the Holy Spirit, if someone were to ask you this morning, if you had ever really experienced the power of the Holy Spirit, how would you answer that?
Amen.
Some of you saying yes, and you don't have to answer out loud, but have you ever really experienced the power of the Holy Spirit?
Have you ever felt the power of the Holy Spirit actually take hold of your life and work in your life?
That's a question to ask yourself.
Do you know what that feels like?
If you ever had that happen, if you ever noticed this, all that you have, all that you are, all that you have, every breath that you believe, or every breath that you breathe,
is provided to you courtesy of the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
That's who gives it to you.
Now, I'm reminded of this passage that we went to a couple of weeks ago in Psalm 100.
Do you remember that?
We took time to go through that.
We looked at that whole Psalm, but verse three tells us this.
It says, we should know that the Lord is God.
It is He who has made us.
We didn't have anything to do with that.
not us ourselves, and we are His people.
We are the sheep of His pasture.
So He is part of the Trinity.
He made us, we didn't make ourselves.
He's Father, Son, Holy Spirit, three in one, we know that.
So this power of the Holy Spirit is certainly something that we could be thankful for, better yet, let me put it this way, is someone that we can certainly be thankful for.
The power of the Holy Spirit is all full display for the Christian, isn't it?
It should be.
There's never a time.
Listen, never a time when the Holy Spirit is not on duty in your life.
He is always working.
He is always in dwelling you.
We're going to talk about that, too.
But he's leading you.
He's guiding you.
He's always there.
If we are willing to let him lead and guide us, then he will.
He is there.
The spiritual power from the Holy Spirit shows up as evidence.
Everybody say evidence.
He is the evidence in your life of every Christian who submits to the Lord to be in his will.
Now the power of the Holy Spirit, listen, it's not just reserved for some of us.
It's for everybody.
It's for all of us who will discipline our minds and commit to seeing the word of God.
and descriptors and do our best to live by them.
That's who he is for.
Now, through the years, you and I are going to age.
Our physical bodies will grow weaker.
Some of us, we were talking about that this morning in our prayer group.
Sometimes our physical body, we just can't do the things that we used to could do.
That's just how it works as we age, but there will be things that we can no longer physically do that we once did.
But however this, our inner spirit,
Our inner strength that is provided by the Holy Spirit will continue to be energized by him.
He will continue to energize you.
And instead of growing weaker, weaker and weaker as we do physically, we will continue to grow stronger and stronger in faith because of this power that comes from the Holy Spirit who dwells within us.
So what does he do?
He revitalizes us.
You ever thought about that?
He revitalizes us and through our commitment to him as we continually grow and we should certainly be thankful for this power of the Holy Spirit that Paul is praying for here in the life of the Christian.
Notice what he said as he was praying for these folks.
He was praying for the power of the Holy Spirit to come out of his glorious riches.
Do you see how he says that?
Now the new King James version or even the King James version, many other translations translates the words out of to saying according to.
This is important.
It's significant.
This magnitude of this is something that we cannot understand it because the riches of God are beyond our comprehension.
We can't understand that.
They are limitless.
His riches are boundless.
And this is the measure that Paul is talking about here as he's praying for these folks at emphasis.
There's nothing that he cannot provide for us.
Man, you ever thought about that?
We've been talking about how God has met our needs today.
There is nothing that God cannot provide.
He owns the cattle on a thousand hills.
There is nothing that he cannot do for us, and I'm so thankful for this power that comes into form of the Holy Spirit.
So not only do we have the power of the Holy Spirit, we can also be thankful today for the indwelling of Christ.
The indwelling of Christ, this first part of verse 17 says this, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through what?
Through faith.
Every believer in Christ.
Everyone who has ever accepted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior is in dwelt by Christ.
Listen.
You don't have to wait for it You're in dwelt by him at the moment of Your salvation It's immediate Romans chapter 8 verses 9 and 11 describe this to us It says you however are not in the realm of the flesh but are in the realm of the spirit if indeed the spirit lives in
within you.
And if anyone does not have the spirit of Christ, they do not belong to Christ.
But if Christ is in you, then even though your body is subject to death because of sin, the spirit gives life because of righteousness.
And if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies because of his spirit who lives in you.
You see the spirit of God makes his home.
Think of this now.
Think of it, women.
The Holy Spirit makes a home out of you, inside of you, in your heart.
But we need to ask ourselves a question.
How does he feel when he's living in there?
What does that look like to him?
Now we see each other's physical attributes as we look, but what does Jesus see from the inside?
What is he looking at?
Is he living in our hearts comfortably?
Or is he disturbed by his surroundings?
Is he just tolerating living there?
Oh, he's there.
You've accepted him.
But how's he doing in there?
Yeah, we've received Christ as our savior.
His Holy Spirit has entered this home.
He's taken up residence in our life, but listen, is there sin within us that causes us to, that he may not be at rest in there?
You ever considered that?
We all think about Jesus entering and living within us, but we've never really considered what he feels like as he is in there.
I read something along the way that
Illustrates Christian life as a house where Jesus living inside us goes from room to room Inside of us you ever maybe you've read this to I'll give you the short version if our minds were the library He begins to replace all the trash into things that are worthless with his word this word that we squeeze out of here If he were to walk into the kitchen He would find out what it is that we have an appetite for
He begins to change the things that are on our internal menu.
It places the things on our menu, things like materialism, things like lust, things like prestige, all of these sinful things.
He begins to try to replace them with humility and meekness and love, all the things.
of Christ as he indwells within us.
So think of this.
He moves from every room corner to corner.
And it's only when we clean up every room.
It's only when we clean out every closet and every corner of sin and foolishness that Jesus will actually get settled in here and begin to move in your life.
We should be thankful that Christ dwells within us.
and is at home there and rules us from the inside out.
The Gospel of John chapter 14 verse 23 says this way.
Jesus replied, anyone who loves me will obey my teaching.
My father will love them and we will come to them and make our home with them.
What a blessing that is.
We can also be thankful this morning for
the abundance of God's love.
We see that in this prayer that Paul is praying for the Ephesian people.
Being made strong inwardly by God's Spirit leads to Christ being at home well deep within our hearts, which leads to His love.
And His love is incomprehensible.
We cannot understand that attribute that God possesses
The result of us yielding to the Holy Spirit's power and submitting to the lordship of Christ in our hearts.
What is it?
Well, it's love.
It's love.
When he can fully and freely indwell our hearts, we become rooted and grounded as Paul says here.
John chapter 13 verses 34 and 35 says it this way.
It says, a new command that I give you.
Love who?
one another.
As I have loved you so much you love one another by this everyone will know that you are my disciples if you love one another.
This love of Jesus Christ when we think about it is certainly something that you and I will never fully comprehend.
We will not understand this unless he decides to reveal it to us somehow on this side or
once we reach our heavenly home, he could decide to do that.
But right now we don't fully understand it.
His love, we could think of it this way, it surpasses the capabilities of all of our knowledge, doesn't it?
We can't understand this.
The love of Christ is far beyond the capability of human reason.
We just don't get it.
to know the love of Christ, which passes all knowledge just to be completely free from ourselves.
And listen, totally dominated by Christ.
There's no way for us alone to be able to grasp what he is saying here.
We're incapable of understanding that kind of love that we should be so thankful for.
Now we love our families.
We love our spouses, we love our children, love our grandchildren.
I have one of mine with me today.
Hey, that's right.
And we love them dearly, but we love them in our way that we can, but it's nothing that compares to the love of God.
Nothing.
You see, love must be the dominant quality of our lives.
Love has to be the root of our existence.
That's what it must be.
The foundation of our existence is love, and this is where we begin to build.
It's off of the love of God.
We don't possess this kind of love, so we must rely on the divine love that can only come through Jesus Christ.
Loving God, loving each other as a family must be a priority in the hearts of all Christians.
I often think of how you and I, none of us,
can handle this life at all apart from the love of Jesus Christ.
We can't, we can't handle it that way.
In a world that's full of ugliness, a world that's full of sin, despair, trial, suppression.
It is only the love of Christ that can get us through each and every day.
And if you stop long enough to think about it, you will see that in your own life.
It's a Christian we trust in the love of Jesus.
We put our faith in Him and in the ultimate sacrifice that He made at the cross to save all of you and me from our sins.
Jesus displayed His level that day at the cross in its deepest and in its most intimate level.
Folks, listen, He died for you and for me.
This abundant love that he has for us today is the same abundant love that he had for us on that day.
And again, we can't comprehend it, but we trust by it and we try to live our lives by it.
We're dear to him.
We are precious in his sight, little kitty song, Jesus loves the little children.
All the children of the year world, red and yellow, black and white, they are white, precious in his sight.
Jesus loves the little children, all of us of the world.
You and I should strive to know more about this love of Christ who went to the cross for us in a more personal and a more spiritual and a more emotional way deeper than we've ever gone before.
We should desire to know this so that we can pattern our own love and our own lives towards everyone else the way that Jesus did.
what you thankful this morning for the abundant love of God.
Not only should we be thankful for the power of the Holy Spirit, the indwelling of Jesus Christ in our lives and and the abundance of God's love, we should also be full and thankful of the fullness of God.
As Paul is praying here, think of it this way.
The power of the Holy Spirit leads to the indwelling of Christ.
which leads to the abundance of God's love, which will lead to the fullness of God in us.
To have this fullness of God means to be satisfied with God in our lives.
Are you satisfied?
Shouldn't all of us want to be filled up to the brim with God?
I certainly do.
I pray that you do.
What all of us should want
is everything that God is willing to entrust us with.
So how do we going about getting filled this way?
What has to do with our pursuit?
Are we pursuing God?
To be filled with Him means to listen, it means that we must empty ourselves of us.
We pray many times of
of how we're asking God to make more of him and less of us.
Well, I like that prayer, but we should pray it this way as well.
We should really make it this way.
Lord, make it all of you and none of us.
Ephesians chapter 4, 13 says this.
I like this part.
It says until, everybody say until, until we reach unity in the faith.
And in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.
Now, I want to tell you what I see in this verse.
It begins with that word you just repeated until.
Little five letter word, but it's a little much bigger than that.
That word tells me that God loves me so much that he's not going to stop until I'm completely like him.
until we reach the fullness and the unity and the knowledge of the Son of God.
He wants me to mature.
He wants me to reach to retain the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.
Aren't we thankful for Jesus?
Who wants to fill us with his love and to fill us with his goodness and in his mercy?
A mighty God we serve.
Amen?
Finally this morning, we should also be thankful according to Paul in this prayer of the glory of God.
We should be thankful for that.
Verses 20 and 21 tells us now to him who was able to do immeasurably more than all we could ask or imagine.
According to his power, that is it worked within us to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations forever and ever.
Amen.
Paul is declaring something here.
He's declaring that God has limitless provision for his children.
We've heard that a few times this morning.
There's no power that he doesn't possess.
He is limitless.
He's in time, old time, every time.
All the time he has everything that his children need.
There's nothing that he can't provide.
He is sovereign.
So he is.
What he can do for exceeds anything that we could ever dream of or imagine.
Our prayers to him can be answered in ways that we would never have even begin to think about.
His working in us is unlimited.
What he's able to do in us is also beyond our comprehension.
Gospel to John helps us out with this and
Verse 14, excuse me, chapter 14, verses 12 to 14 says this, very truly, I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these because I am going to the Father.
And I will do whatever you ask in my name so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it.
Now, of course,
passage of scripture is talking about being within the will of God, but it's all in itself could be a message, but it helps us realize more about the magnitude of the glory of the God that we serve.
He deserves our praise, doesn't he?
He deserves it.
We should be thankful to him in all of his glory in this season of focusing in on giving thanks,
We should be mindful of being thankful in all things, shouldn't we?
We should be doing that all the time.
But during this time of year, it really just kind of comes to the surface and we begin to think more and more about it.
But whether we think they're big things, whether we think they're small things, God demonstrates His provision in all things.
We should be thankful for the power.
of the Holy Spirit.
We should be thankful for the indwelling of Christ Jesus, for the abundance of God's love, the fullness of God, and for the glory of God.
We should be thankful in all things.
We have owes so much to be thankful for.
Every headbound, every eye closed.
As we close this morning,
I would just ask you to reflect on how the Lord has blessed you.
Reflect on what it is that He possesses the power to do for you.
We serve a mighty God and we should be thankful for all He does and simply just because of who He is.
Are you thankful today?
I pray that you are.
I'm so thankful that Jesus went to the cross for my sins.
Went to the cross for your sins.
He died on the cross.
They put him in the tomb.
Three days later, he rose from the grave.
He has power over sin.
He has power over death.
And He did all of this just for us.
I'm thankful for that.
Do you know Him today?
Do you know Jesus Christ as your Lord?
Do you know Him as your Savior?
Have you ever had a conversation with Him asking Him to come into your life and dwell in you?
His Holy Spirit to live in you comfortably.
If you haven't asked Him to do that, you can do that right now.
Right now as we speak, Jesus will save you, if you will, but ask.
Our altar is open.
You're welcome to come down here and pray.
I will be glad to talk with you and lead you to Christ.
I'll be glad to pray with you.
As the Lord leads you this morning, you come, stand with me.
And if you would come this morning and give it all to Jesus, we have always much to be thankful for.
You come.